I'm a technologist.

Sometimes, I hear about technology I think I should probably investigate but
don't have time to look into right away.

I put those here.


dnsmasq is a tool I've wanted for quite a long time. It is a lightweight DNS
proxy/DHCP server, mainly meant to let you easily assign names to local
machines behind a NATted firewall. It also makes "lying" about DNS when behind
the firewall running it pretty easy, something that would have been quite
handy for PEDG's VPN setup. Shoutout to Josh Turmel for pointing me to it.


For AJAXy websites, I rather like the idea of spin.js, as it is much lighter
than animated GIFs/PNGs (especially if you need multiple sizes), and works in
a wide array of browsers. http://fgnass.github.com/spin.js/


Many programs and systems do not support Unicode correctly (or at all). When
you need to work with them in Python, unidecode is (probably) a useful module.
http://www.tablix.org/~avian/git/unidecode.git


puppet seems like an excellent open-source tool for server configuration
management, particularly when facing large deployments. I have not yet had a
chance to try playing with it, but it looks from the outside like it would be
an excellent tool for keeping multiple server images synchronized.
http://puppetlabs.com/ The major competition is cfengine, Chef, Ansible, and
running a package manager for your projects
(http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=3091407). Leaning more towards Ansible
these days - trying it out for something; we'll see what I think.


nix is a functional package manager, with most of the features I've been
wanting. There's also a Linux distro built on top of it.
http://nixos.org/nix/


Stripe is a ycombinator startup that does payment processing for geeks:
https://stripe.com/


CookieSwap is an old FF plugin to let you store different sets of cookies for
the same domain and flip between them. I was wishing it existed, for web
development, so I went looking. Sadly, it appears to only work for 1.5 and 2,
but I should test it, and/or see how hard it is to update.
http://cookieswap.mozdev.org/


virtualenv is a Python tool for letting you have multiple distinct Python
environments, fully insulated from each other. That sounds like something I
should really wrap my brain around.


http://www.bacula.org/en/ is a backup system that Spencer recommends. It's
open source and fairly industrial-strength, he says.


Fabric is a Python module for automating tasks over SSH. Not quite like a
configuration management tool, but still worth knowing about, I suppose.
http://docs.fabfile.org/en/1.4.1/index.html


xfst is a Unix-based tool from Xerox PARC that is a sort of competitor to
regular expressions. Consider checking it out someday when I have too much
free time. http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~cis639/docs/xfst.html


supervisord is a Python process control system. Might be worth checking out at
some point. http://supervisord.org/


emacsy is a not-yet-existent system for embedding an Emacs-ish approach to
user interface creation in arbitrary binaries:
https://github.com/secelis/emacsy


http://amoffat.github.com/sh/ is a python module for handling subprocesses. It
appears to suck much less than subprocess.


fail2ban is something I should probably have installed on any web-facing
servers I admin. It auto-bans IPs that look like they're abusing the system,
via iptables. http://www.fail2ban.org/wiki/index.php/Main_Page


SchemaSpy looks at your schemas and makes a navigable HTML docs page, complete
with diagrams of the DB. I would very much like to integrate it with git's
post-receive hook to have an auto-updated page on project dev sites that
outlines the schema as it is in, say, master.


history.js provides an AJAX history interface that uses new HTML 5 pushState
when present, and defaults to the classic old # URL changes when not. It even
lets you store data with each state.
https://github.com/browserstate/history.js


http://qafoolabs.github.io/php-refactoring-browser/ is a refactoring tool for
PHP. Doesn't seem to be very far along yet, but it might be handy at some
point, especially if integrated with Emacs and php-mode.


csscss detects duplicate declarations in CSS files. Might be very handy.
http://zmoazeni.github.io/csscss/?hn=1


requests is a Python library for speaking HTTP that gets rave reviews:
http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/


Twig.js compiles Twig templates into JS. Could be great for AJAX-heavy apps,
if you have model templates.


Bugs Everywhere is a distributed bug tracker that apparently has support for
a central instance? If it's good, it might save me having to write it:
http://bugseverywhere.org/


jQuery Migrate is for migrating apps built around old jQueries to newer ones, while maintaining some methods/plugins not in the new builds that you might need for your legacy app: https://github.com/jquery/jquery-migrate/


I'd like a clean way to install a lot of githooks in parallel. Looks like
https://github.com/icefox/git-hooks might just do the job.


bower is a front-end package manager, which might be worth investigating.
https://github.com/bower/bower


box is a program that helps you build .phars: http://box-project.org/


boris is a nice-looking PHP REPL that doesn't work on Windows:
https://github.com/d11wtq/boris


zipkin is something Twitter uses for high-volume, time-oriented debug tracing.
http://twitter.github.io/zipkin/


Google Maps has some built-in tech for doing heatmaps:
https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/layers#JSHeatMaps


There is finally an open-source library for working with PSDs. It's in Ruby,
but it's still about the only game in town:
https://github.com/layervault/psd.rb


gitslave is another attempt to solve the submodule problem.
http://gitslave.sourceforge.net/


https://phpids.org is a library for auto-detecting and acting on suspicious
input from end-users. Think of it as a customizable fail2ban sort of tool.


http://phpsec.org/projects/phpsecinfo/ is PHP info for security. Not much
help, but it's something.


ungit is a pretty novice-friendly Git UI. It might be an *excellent* basis for
building the git tutorial system I wish existed, and also for building my
"rebase entire subtrees by dragging" feature I wish existed. It already has
single-branch rebases, so maybe it already can handle trees?


Amphetype looks like it might be a decent free typing trainer. Darn hard
to find one of those... https://code.google.com/p/amphetype/


Everyone needs SVG in JS. I'm not exactly sure how this relates to a browser's
SVG support, but it might come in handy someday regardless: http://svgjs.com/


Style guidelines for CSS, which look decent:
https://github.com/necolas/idiomatic-css


Style guidelines for JS which look decent:
https://github.com/rwaldron/idiomatic.js/


git-deploy is a robust-looking git-oriented deployment tool I would like to
try out someday: https://github.com/git-deploy/git-deploy


phabricator looks like a decent, open-source suite of software for
collaborating on software projects. No groundbreaking ideas, but if it
delivers the basics sanely, that'd beat most systems hands-down. Written in
PHP by an ex-FB employee: http://phabricator.org/


BuildBot is an open-source tool for automating builds, tests, and releases:
http://buildbot.net/index.html


statsd is an open-source daemon you can use for tracking stats with almost
zero impact on app performance, thanks to the power of UDP and not caring if
you miss an update here or there.


Chocolatey is a tool that might help with provisioning Windows boxes:
https://chocolatey.org/


https://github.com/hakimel/reveal.js is a nifty framework for doing
presentations in HTML/JS.


PHP SQL query construction library: https://github.com/auraphp/Aura.Sql_Query
Requires 5.4.


PHP HTTP request lib that looks promising: http://requests.ryanmccue.info/


FontForge could be useful if I'm ever trying to design a font.
That's not too likely, but could happen if I need an icon font.
http://fontforge.org/


Mailcheck is a JS plugin to check for typos in an email address's domain.
Should be great for cutting down on signup bounces.
https://github.com/Kicksend/mailcheck


Not actually a library, but another clever idea for confirming whether an
email address exists - as part of your validation, look up the mailserver and
ask it for a receipt for the mailbox. Apparently Exchange doesn't do this in
a compatible way, but if you addressed that and combined this with the above,
you'd be able to catch a whole lot of mistakes before they were made.
http://www.webdigi.co.uk/blog/2009/how-to-check-if-an-email-address-exists-without-sending-an-email/


Tool for working with CSVs in PHP, with a particular eye to doing low-memory
usage imports to a DB: https://github.com/goodby/csv


SheetJS lets you process CSVs in the browser, using JS:
http://sheetjs.com/


HandsonTable is an in-browser spreadsheet implementation, useful for letting
users touch up their CSVs before actually uploading records:
http://www.handsontable.com/


scss-lint is a powerful style checker for SCSS.
https://github.com/brigade/scss-lint


cssbeautify is a node.js-based tool for cleaning up stylesheet formatting.
It doesn't indent comments correctly, and it doesn't support in-place updates,
but it sure beats nothing. https://github.com/senchalabs/cssbeautify


csscomb looks like a useful stylesheet beautifier. Dunno how it does on SCSS.
http://csscomb.com/


cssprefixer is a CSS processor that saves the need to write out all the
browser-specific prefixes for not-yet-widely-supported prefixes. Not sure I
want to use this particular tool just yet, but that functionality might be a
nice addition to SCSS, as it'd be cleaner than using mixins for the same
purpose. http://cssprefixer.appspot.com/


autoprefixer is a different CSS processor that adds browser-specific prefixes
to CSS. Should compare these two next time I'm building a CSS pipeline.
https://github.com/ai/autoprefixer


spritesmith is a grunt task for generating spritesheets from a set of images.
I don't love grunt/gulp, being a fan of `npm run` as simpler and just about as
powerful, but still worth noting.
https://github.com/Ensighten/grunt-spritesmith


http://caniuse.com/ is the lookup table of "what browsers support this
feature?" that I've wanted for years. The data driving it is on GitHub,
which I have cloned Just In Case.


http://html5please.com/ is related to caniuse.com, but is a bit more
full-featured. It suggests alternatives for browsers that don't have the
feature you're looking at.


presto is Facebook's data warehousing backend:
http://prestodb.io/


Liquibase is a Java tool for refactoring DBs and tracking the structural
changes. It is Java, but it might just be the general-purpose tool I've been
looking for, since you could use it with raw SQL, and without configuring an
ORM.
http://www.liquibase.org/


ruckusing-migrations is a PHP library for handling DB migrations.
https://github.com/ruckus/ruckusing-migrations


Stripe offers an open-source jQuery plugin for building credit card processing
forms. It seems very solid:
https://github.com/stripe/jquery.payment


Yahoo has a JS-based tool for measuring perceived performance. Having seen a
little of what Google Analytics can do, I'm not sure this would ever be
necessary, but it might be worth looking into sometime:
https://github.com/yahoo/boomerang


A media lightboxing tool with markup that degrades quite well (and apparently
works back to IE 6):
http://www.no-margin-for-errors.com/projects/prettyphoto-jquery-lightbox-clone/


js-beautify is a library for formatting JS, CSS, and HTML. I should give it a
trial run some time.
https://github.com/einars/js-beautify


https://github.com/jedmao/codepainter is a JS beautifier that can infer
preferred style from sample files. Interesting idea - dunno how good it is.


timeago is a jQuery plugin for fuzzy dates in webpages.
http://timeago.yarp.com/


appserver is the new PHP answer to gunicorn and the like - multithreaded
server written in PHP. http://www.appserver.io/


appserver is built on krakjoe/pthreads, which appears to have Windows support.
This should mean, in principle, that I can get things like boris (which
requires POSIX threads) working. It also means I may have some infrastructure
that might work for my hypothetical PHP code assistance daemon.


lftp is, apparently, a very powerful open-source file transfer tool.
http://lftp.yar.ru/


Piwik is the open-source answer to Google Analytics. I may try using it for a
future project or two, but I should probably compare to GA first so I can be
aware of what I am or am not missing. http://piwik.org/


ExifTool is a Swiss-Army chainsaw for image metadata (command-line tool and
library). It is, appropriately enough, written in the Swiss-Army chainsaw
language.


riot.js is a lightweight Model-View-"Presenter" JS framework. Cursory
inspection, plus reading of its manifesto blog post, makes me think it would
fit my style very nicely.
https://moot.it/blog/technology/riotjs-the-1kb-mvp-framework.html and
https://github.com/moot/riotjs/


tqdm turns Python iterators into iterators that output a progress prompt.
https://github.com/noamraph/tqdm


clrs.cc is a small CSS (and CSS preprocessor) package giving CSS better default
colors.


Ink is a framework for making responsive HTML emails, and claims to have
good-looking results everywhere, even in Outlook. Having suffered through some
HTML email implementation tasks, I'm intrigued.


strace looks *extremely* useful when a live process is misbehaving and you
don't know why (especially one you don't have source code to). It traces all
system calls/events from the process, so it'd be most useful in a system
programmer's hands, but it might still be handy even for a high-level wuss
like me.


forceps is a Ruby gem for pulling down a specific entity's data and all
dependencies, specifically for debugging obscure problems. I don't use Ruby,
but I've wanted this before, so if I need it again, this might be a place to
start, just to understand the problem domain better.
https://github.com/jorgemanrubia/forceps


omnipay is a PHP CC processing gateway API wrapper that handles a LOT of
different gateways. https://github.com/omnipay/omnipay


watchman is for watching files and doing something when they change.
https://github.com/facebook/watchman


bleach is a Python library for cleaning up HTML
https://github.com/jsocol/bleach


gor is a tool for capturing and replaying HTTP requests from prod.
https://github.com/buger/gor


multiline is a cute hack to get multiline strings in JS. ES 6 will have them
natively, and they aren't necessary, but it would clean things up a bit, in
theory.
https://github.com/sindresorhus/multiline


Responsive tables? tablesaw to the rescue!
https://github.com/filamentgroup/tablesaw


uncss is a node.js tool for finding unused CSS selectors:
https://github.com/giakki/uncss


gogs is a git repository viewer written in Go, and thus hopefully installable
via binary fairly easily: https://github.com/gogits/gogs


docopt is a standard for turning a command-line app's help string into an
argument parser. It works for several languages, including Python, Ruby,
JavaScript, PHP, and Go:
http://docopt.org/


BFG Repo Cleaner is a simpler way to nuke data from a git repo's history.
Having used filter-branch for this job a few times, I wouldn't mind giving it
a spin next time I have to do this.
http://rtyley.github.io/bfg-repo-cleaner/


jq is a command-line tool for processing JSON the way you'd use awk/sed/grep
for text.
http://stedolan.github.io/jq/


CSS3PIE is a polyfill to make border-radius, background gradients, and maybe
other things work in IE 6-9: http://css3pie.com/


hammer.js is a JS library for handling multi-touch events cleanly. "Can touch
this" is the slogan, which probably tells you what it's named for.
http://eightmedia.github.io/hammer.js/


Spencer wrote this shell script to bisect within a given commit, for when
the bug's in one of those bomb commits:
https://gist.github.com/srathbun/9b891162c462fc0ec9ea


OnionShare lets you share files of arbitrary size peer-to-peer. Go Tor.
https://github.com/micahflee/onionshare


LearnGitBranching is a nice graphical tutorial that would be great for
teaching novices how git works. I wish it actually showed you the contents of
files, but that might be expecting a bit much:
http://pcottle.github.io/learnGitBranching/


ipfw is a firewall first and foremost, but you can use it for bandwidth
throttling, and thus for simulating low-bandwidth connections:
http://apple.stackexchange.com/a/46378


lsof is for more than files. -i will let you scan for what's grabbed a
port, which is pretty cool.


diffscuss is a format for plain-text diff-based code reviews:
https://github.com/hut8labs/diffscuss


Sandstorm is a webapp sandboxing system meant to enable the sort of
personal-cloud setup I hope will be feasible for normals someday:
https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm


arrow is an improved(?), unified datetime library for Python. Looks nice.


Bourbon Neat is a SASS grid framework that lets you have really clean markup.
Presumably it sacrifices older browsers.
http://neat.bourbon.io/


C3.js is a JavaScript charting library built on top of D3.js. No IE 8 support.
http://c3js.org/


CodeMirror is an open-source HTML-based text editor. Could be great for
giving people "try it out"-style functionality without too much effort:
https://github.com/codemirror/CodeMirror/


maim is a command-line tool for taking screenshots on Linux. Paired with an
imgur bash uploader (or one to upload to my own hosting), could be a viable
replacement for CloudApp. https://github.com/naelstrof/maim


murder uses BitTorrent to deploy things to massive arrays of servers. Not a
problem I'm ever likely to have, but a brilliant solution to this problem
nonetheless. https://github.com/lg/murder


bup adapts Git's packfile format to a backup system that deduplicates within
binary files. Not sure it's ready for prime-time, but it's definitely got
potential.


git-lfs is Yet Another Solution to storing large files in Git. It's written by
GitHub, and keeps the actual large files on an HTTPS server based on your
configuration. Might want to try it someday. You can apparently just use git
normally after setup, which is a nice touch.
https://git-lfs.github.com


airplane-mode provides an API wrapper server that caches responses so you can
work offline (for instance, on airplanes).
https://github.com/jeremiak/airplane-mode
